Pittsburgh - The City I Couldn't Hate

It was no secret to anybody that my first months of college didn't quite click.
It felt to me that nothing was going right- not my grades, my relationships, and hell,
even the weather just wouldn't let up. Things were looking bleak.
From the moment I first stepped into Pittsburgh, something had felt weird. Something
I couldn't quite put my finger on. Some unfounded enigma of this city I had yet to crack.
It led to my first moments of my life in this city being odd, even before I had seen the
campus of the school I would one day be attending. It was something I couldn't explain
to anybody, not even myself. I went through the tours of the school and I saw nothing
wrong. It was everything I was looking for- and a few months later, I was accepted.
By then the feeling had yet to fade from my memory. Even when I compared Pitt to
the other options I had been accepted in to, though it excelled in every way compared to
the others, that feeling still lay in the back of my mind. I wondered if I could ever grow
comfortable there.

I commited and that was that. Time went by, as it always does. I forgot about the feeling.
I was excited to come to college.
I arrived and within a day, the feeling was back. I felt wholly uncomfortable, something that
couldn't just be chalked up to starting college. I felt incompatible with this place
I was in.

My first months were a slog. I couldn't shake it. I could never feel comfortable. I
wanted to hate the place I was in, but I understood it wasn't its fault, even with
the oppressive weather I had to endured. On the surface level, I liked everything
about Pittsburgh. Its walkability, its character, and it had a charm I had never seen before.
But I couldn't crack it. My first semester barely escaped the descriptor of "abject failure"
and I went back home for winter break with my tail between my legs.

I knew something had to change. But I just couldn't figure out what. I dreaded coming
back, seeing the place that watched me fail and didn't extend an arm to help.
The feeling still lived with me. But as time went on, I began to find my footing.
Not just in school, but in life. In my existence in that city. I spent less time
cooped up in the library and more time in a cafe, walking, biking, or with my friends.
My life slowed down- but things started looking up. My first semester, in fear of failure,
I spent every moment trying to avoid it. Lord knows all work and no play is incompatible
with an ADHD brain like my own, though. And by trying to hard to run away, I was met
with the exact thing I feared so heavily, and everything else suffered as a result.
I was able to manage myself- not well, but anything's a start, right? But it was a day
, one single day that changed the way I looked at life entirely. On a whim, I decided
to borrow a camera from the library and take on the town to start an urbanist project
I'd been pondering for months. I did just that, and it finally clicked. I fell in love
with the place. I realized that this would be the city that forged me, even if I was
made in Glen Ridge. I appreciated the hard work it took to document the beauty of this
city effectively, and I realized how the moments of rest and slowness in between
were even more important. I can honestly say that day played a big role in helping me
understand what I've been missing.

Here I sit now in Ohio, visiting my grandparents, and I can't get the feeling it left
me out of my head. It's an experience I can live just fine back in Montclair and New
York, but one that's wholly incompatible with Columbus, Ohio. Here, one can't as
easily enjoy the simple delight of a good cafe or a peaceful walk. Same thing with my
job in Pennsylvania. While work can be fun, it can't be my whole life. Frankly, I think
even a third of it would be too much. I appreciate now that in Pittsburgh, I have
freedom to be. To just exist. To determine where my life goes when I want it too. And
while that can be scary, sure, it can also be such a beautiful thing. I'm determined to
make it a beautiful thing. 
